<h1 class="minutehead">Minutes of a meeting of the above Council held on Monday 24th September 2018 at 7.00pm in Tintern Village Hall.</h1>
Present: Chairman Cllr Mrs Shewell, Cllrs Hayward, Hoskins, Hillard, Cobb, Richards, Evans, County Cllr Webb and the Clerk. Members of the public – Mr Steve Baldwin, MCC.
<ol start="2564">
<li>Police Report: Attached. No presence. Clerk to ask if we can have a police presence at the next meeting.</li>
<li>Public Forum: No public presence.</li>
<li>Apologies for absence: Cllr Pocock.</li>
</ol>
2567. Declarations of interest: No. 2573 – LWVBPT – Cllrs Hayward & Hillard.
2568. Approval of minutes of previous meeting: Approved and signed as correct. As a matter raised at the August meeting Cllr Evans reported that the sign by the surgery has still not been raised as previously requested.
2569. Financial Report: BMM A/C £7,117.48, Community A/C £4,341.32. Amount spent to date on revenue £3,861, capital £6,436, total £10,297.
2570. Accounts for payment: Merlin Waste £30.00 (Ch. No. 300093), 
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses £335.78 (Ch. No. 300094), 
B&Q – woodstain & strimmer cord £102.96 (Ch. No. 300095), 
Stephen Scrivens – maintenance to benches & noticeboards - £300.00 (Ch. No. 300096) – all approved.
2571. Planning Permissions: None. Cllr Richards reported that there was a Tree Felling Notice at Crown Lodge on the planning website which has now been approved. She also reported that the application on Land to the south-east of Fountain Inn for conversion of a dwelling was refused on the 17th September on the basis that there was a contravention of Policy H4 & T2 (structures being converted for residential use that are ruins). The Planning Officer’s report was that 50% of the current structure was not there originally and the original structure would have not been of a suitable height for residential use.
2572. Updates: A466 future road closures – Following a special meeting held by TCC in Tintern earlier in the month to discuss issues raised in an email sent by the Chairman, Cllr Shewell to MCC forwarding details of concerns raised by members of the public at the special meeting or via direct contact with TCC, a representative from MCC Highways was present to explain the current options. Cllr Richards had prepared a draft recommendation setting out the issues about which TCC seek assurance from MCC that they will address prior to the closure. A consensus has been reached that Option 1 (starting work in Spring 2019 for completion by May 2019) should be recommended to MCC. This option was supported by the majority of the businesses and residents. Cllr Shewell explained the contents of her email outlining TCC’s recommendations to Mr Baldwin, the reassurances sought and the reason for calling the earlier public meeting.
Mr Baldwin then went through the questions raised in the email:–
Q.1 – Site 1 (Wyndcliff) the earliest they can start work is 1st April 2019; Site 2 (Livox) work will only be able to start in March 2019 provided no evidence of the presence of bats is found. Surveys are being carried out, one already done with no evidence found, but two further surveys need to be done (this Wednesday and October).
Q.2 - Easter Opening – he explained that if work starts on Site 2 in March and takes 3-4 weeks it will hopefully be completed after Easter. Site 1 – work will take 8-10 weeks so will not be finished until early July. Cllr Richards asked if the road can be opened at the beginning of April if work is not completed, but Mr Baldwin thought this would be unlikely. He will look into this however. Depending on the response from the Welsh Government they may still have to do the work in September 2019 as the site is a Triple SSSI and a very rare habitat.
Q.3 – Signage – Cllr Shewell stated it would be helpful if signage is clearer and drivers could be made aware before the relevant junction exactly where the road is closed and diversion starts.
Q.4 – There was an issue with sat-nav when the closures were in force last year. He will discuss this with Graham Kinsella.
Q.5 – Cllr Shewell explained that adequate advance notice needs be given when work is due to start with ideally a presentation by MCC to enable members of the community to ascertain and question the proposed arrangements. Mr Baldwin agreed this could be done.
Q.6 – Business Rates – Cllrs feel businesses will be hit very badly by future closures. Cllr Shewell asked Mr Baldwin to discuss with Roger Hoggins TCC’s request that affected businesses be given a rates “holiday” during the period of closure. 
The issue of alternative routes was discussed and the fact that some of these roads are in a poor condition was pointed out, especially above Pontysaeson. Cllr Richards asked if temporary speed restrictions could be put in place. Cllr Shewell requested a one-way system around the Beaufort Ponds. Cllr Shewell asked if MCC could have 7-day working or double shifts to enable the work to be done in a shorter time and asked what hours the contractors intend to work. Mr Baldwin will make enquiries. Cllr Cobb asked whether the bus companies will be notified and Mr Baldwin confirmed they are notified well in advance of the closures.
Cllr Hoskins asked if a warning of junction sign could be put up at the Catbrook Road onto Trellech Road junction. 
Cllr Evans will put the minutes of the special meeting on the website.
Closed Footway opposite Prospect Cottage – Having met on site some time ago MCC are looking into a permanent solution to stop erosion of the riverbank. In the meantime, and as a temporary measure, MCC will remove the barrier, cut back overgrowth and put a wooden fence to the riverside of the kerb to create a footpath, and also cut back overgrowth on the other side of the road. This work will be done in October. MCC have written to Natural Resources Wales. Cllr Shewell asked that they report back to TCC when they received a response so that TCC can discuss further action they decide appropriate about their concerns of further erosion and possible undermining of the road.
Japanese Knotweed re-application – Second application was carried out on the 7th September by Complete Weed Control. AONB also carried out an application on the 17th September along the riverbank from the Church to the footbridge as they had a last minute funding opportunity to enable this to be done. A second application will be carried out by them next year. Cllr Richards raised the issue of JKW on A466 by The Leytons Field along the boundary wall parallel with the A466, which is covering the footpath and forcing pedestrians to step into the road. Clerk to raise this with the proprietors of The Anchor Inn.
2573. Reports from outside bodies: Lower Wye Valley Building Preservation Trust – Discuss Contract from Welsh Water and gauge views on its implications to TCC. Cllr Cobb has been asked to join the sub-group and go through the documentation. As she has not finished doing this the matter will be discussed at the October meeting.
Village Hall – Refurbishment of the floor commencing Tuesday which should take one week. Table Sale raised £273, well attended. Large wedding reception held in the Hall this weekend. Xmas Craft Fair 2nd December and Xmas Bingo potentially 4th December.
Llandogo School - The AGM, which was scheduled for last week, has had to be postponed.
St Michael’s Church - Restoration work is going forward with the faculty going in soon, awaiting drawings from architect. Harvest festival last week. Macmillan coffee morning shortly. PCC will allow the erection of a war memorial in the churchyard.
2574. Reports from Sub-Committees: Finance - Completed audit now received from the auditors. Annual return to be presented at the October meeting. Meeting of the finance subcommittee will be held shortly. Cllr Shewell asked councillors to let the Clerk know of any items for the next budget by the October meeting as the Finance Sub-Committee will meet in November to prepare the budget for the next financial year.
2575. Information & Data Protection Policy & Retention & Disposal Policy: Cllr Evans was asked to check this but had not received an updated copy. Clerk asked to send a further copy to him for discussion at the October meeting.
2576. Correspondence: SLCC Proxy Votes. Gloucestershire County Council – notification of road closure for embankment stabilisation works, Redbrook to Bigsweir from 26th September to 3rd December 2018. Roger Hoggins, MCC Highways – Road safety and speed related enquiries Workshop 5th October in Monmouth. Cllr Evans to attend.
MCC & J. Sheldon – Proposed improvements to MCC Recycling Collection.
Martin Everett/Alan Hillard re names for Tintern war memorial.
2577. Any Other Business: Cllr Evans reported that the sign by the Drs Surgery has still not been raised. Clerk to ask MCC again to ensure this is done.
Cllr Evans stated he is going to start a campaign for a zebra crossing from Drs Surgery to The Royal George as he feels it would control traffic.
Cllr Richards reported on the Ways to Peace Festival. There was a good attendance Friday night, but poor weather affected attendance on Saturday.
Clerk to ask for fallen tree opposite Glenroy, Trellech Road to be removed as it is a traffic hazard.
2578. Date of next meeting: October 29th 2018.
There being no further business the meeting closed at 20.39.
