<h1 class="minutehead">Minutes of a meeting of the above Council held in Tintern Village Hall on Monday 29th October 2018 at 7.00pm.</h1>
Present: Chairman Cllr Mrs Shewell, Cllrs Hayward, Hoskins, Hillard, Richards, Cobb, Evans, County Cllr Webb and the Clerk. Members of the public – CSO Geraint Reynolds, Mr Tom & Mrs Hayley Court.
<ol start="2579">
  <li>Police Report: Attached. CSO Geraint Reynolds present.</li>
  <li>Public Forum: Mr Tom & Mrs Hayley Court from Hill Farm, Barbadoes to explain their plans for the property. They originally put in a pre-planning application for a glamping business, but are now pursuing a possible day retreat for yoga and massage. TCC requested that they would like a limit of 15 put on it. Cllr Hoskins queried access and was informed that NRW have informed them the track is for public use.</li>
  <li>2581. Apologies for absence: Cllr Pocock who has now tendered his resignation. Clerk to thank him for his work as councillor and advertise the vacancy.</li>
</ol>
2582. Declarations of interest: Cllrs Hayward, Hillard & Shewell re 2588 (LWVBPT).
2583. Approval of minutes of previous meeting: Approved & signed as correct.
2584. Financial Report: Community A/C £3,572.58, BMM A/C £7,117.48. Amount spent to date on capital £6,436, revenue £4,630 making a total of £11,066.
2585. Accounts for payment:
Merlin Waste - £30.00 (Ch. No. 300097)
Village Hall Room Hire - £40 (Ch. No. 300098) 
Complete Weed Control - £540 (Ch. No. 300099) 
Clerk’s Salary & Expenses - £349.75 (Ch. No. 300100) 
Village Hall Insurance - £1,019.77 (Ch. No. 101138) 
S. Evans - £12.80 (Ch. 101139) – all approved.
2586. Planning Permissions: Land lying to east of Trellech Road – Three Cllrs attended the site meeting on 17th October as the original one was rescheduled at the request of the applicant. Approval was later granted for the container and works to create the trackways, subject to conditions as requested by TCC.
The Bay Cottage – Following a meeting with Amy Longford and Three Councillors where other listed buildings were discussed, a new enforcement case has now been opened saying it is a listed building and the applicants are in breach of their consent. Cllr Hillard brought up the subject of St Mary’s Church and possible plans for its future use.
2587. Updates: Trellech Road resurfacing plans – MCC will be resurfacing the remainder of the Trellech Road from the Catbrook Junction to Whitestone in the New Year. Clerk to ask Steve Baldwin, MCC to contact TCC when they have a start date.
Hill Farm, Barbadoes – MCC had opened an enforcement case and now reported back that there is at present no glamping business being carried on there, but the new owners have been in pre-application enquiries to discuss the possibility of a business venture at the premises. New owners present to explain their plans, as above.
Japanese Knotweed on The Leytons Field – Clerk spoke to the manager of The Anchor Inn and he is aware of this. He cut it back before the Fete but will be spraying it in January/ February and burning the waste on site. He has been informed that this is lesser JKW and is informed this is the correct way to treat it.
Speed Limit A466 on northern edge of Tintern – TCC had requested that the limit be extended to north of Brockweir Bridge, as originally requested. Clerk contacted MCC Highways but they have confirmed that it is not now possible to extend the new speed limit as the authority have already extended this by an additional 200 metres over and above what the guidance states.
2588. Reports from outside bodies: Lower Wye Valley Building Preservation Trust – Discuss contract from Welsh Water and gauge views on its implications to TCC. Cllrs Shewell, Hayward & Cobb had met to go through the numerous variations and Cllr Shewell explained the situation to Cllrs re the land swap, work needing to be carried out in replacing the SPS and property transfers. Cllr Shewell asked Councillors how they would feel with the suggestion that TCC go back to the Trust and propose that TCC sell the small piece of land for the new SPS to the Trust for a peppercorn figure and when work is finished the old piece of land is returned to TCC, but on the basis that if negotiations go wrong TCC can buy it back at a peppercorn figure. Cllr Richards proposed and Cllr Evans seconded this proposal.
Clerk asked to set up a meeting between Cllrs Shewell, Hayward & Cobb, Mr Jim Hewitt & Mrs Elsa Wood for LWVBPT to report these proposals to the Trust.
Village Hall - Xmas Fayre 2nd December, Bingo 4th December. Maintenance Day in November when hopefully the two benches will be installed. Plans are progressing for the play area and fencing of parking area from the play area. Cllr Cobb reported that the green “no public access sign” has been stolen twice. Anyone who has any knowledge let TCC or VHC know.
Llandogo School – TCC have been informed of governor resignations.
St Michael’s Church – Faculty not yet put in for the restoration work. Armistice Day Remembrance Service 11th November. Services for the next couple of months to be published in the Tintern News.
2589. Reports from Sub-Committees: Finance – Annual Return to be approved (as per Agenda No. 2591). Finance Sub-Committee to meet to discuss comments from it and set the 2019/20 precept. Clerk to arrange this. Due to the resignation of Cllr Pocock a new councillor needs to be appointed onto the Finance Committee. Cllrs Evans & Hillard offered to join the Finance Committee. Councillors were asked to let Clerk have suggestions for the precept by the 20th November. Cllr Richards suggested the possibility of an information board. Chairman explained TCC discussed this before but due to constantly changing
information felt it would be inaccurate in a short space of time. Cllr Richards offered to speak to the Tourist Board re this, get costings and report back to TCC.
Cllr Evans suggested a traffic calming measure at each end of the village.
Cllr Hillard suggested a possible war memorial, but has no costings yet.
2590. Possible rumble strips on entry to village: This was a suggestion raised by Cllr Evans following a meeting he attended and in response to a request for Councillors to make suggestions in advance of the 2019/20 Precept being submitted. Clerk to ask Roger Hoggins, MCC when they are going to install the rumble strips and whether he has got anywhere with plans for a long-term traffic management scheme for the A466 through the village.
2591. Present & approve Annual Return for Year 2017/18: Completed return, having been received from the external auditor was presented and approved.
2592. Information & Data Protection Policy & Retention & Disposal Policy: Chairman suggested a sub-committee are formed to discuss this. Cllrs Evans & Richards to meet with the Clerk to go through this.
2593. Report back from meeting with Planning Enforcements Officer: Amy Longford, MCC Planning Enforcement Officer, has checked the current position with the Bay Cottage and conditions have been discharged so work can go ahead. This includes replacing the roof covering.
2594. MCC Right of Way Improvement Plan: Email received from Ruth Rourke, MCC. They are currently reviewing the Rights of Way Improvement Plan as the council wishes to refocus its rights of way service priorities in recognition of the current and anticipated needs of users.
2595. Local Development Plan Conservation Area Appraisal: Cllr Evans recently attended a site meeting and was asked if TCC discussed this. Cllr Richards confirmed she was aware of this and does draw it to Councillors attention periodically.
2596. Correspondence: None.
2597. Any Other Business: Cllr Shewell reported that a number of local businesses are concerned at the recent appearance of an A-Board on the roundabout at Chepstow saying The Abbey and Anchor are open for business. This gives the implication that other businesses are not open. Some of those businesses now propose putting up boards advertising their own businesses. There are already too many signs which are unclear and accurate in the information they give. Cllr Hillard felt that the sign saying road ahead closed should be removed. County Cllr Webb has already spoken to someone at MCC about the matter. Clerk to also email Roger Hoggins, MCC.
Cllr Shewell also stated TCC had asked for an assurance for a rates holiday for businesses during the proposed closure of the A466 between Tintern and St Arvans. This was requested in the Chairman’s email to Mr Hoggins and raised again by her at the meeting attended by Mr Steve Baldwin. No assurance has been given to date and other matters raised also remain outstanding. The Clerk was asked to enquire about this. Cllr Shewell requested Mr Hoggins to be asked to come out and have a meeting with the businesses. County Cllr Webb will ask him and report back. Clerk also asked to chase Mr Hoggins again about the closed footway by the former Moon & Sixpence, opposite Prospect Cottage.
Cllr Shewell asked if TCC were going to have an Xmas tree on the village green again this year. Cllrs Hayward & Hoskins agreed to obtain and erect one.
Cllr Richards reported that the Fete Report is now on the village website. Final accounts are now prepared and can be presented to TCC if required. Made a £43 profit and now have several new committee members.
Cllr Cobb reported that she had been approached by a member of the public asking what was happening with the former Land Mine at The Anchor Inn. Clerk had asked the manager of The Anchor earlier in the year and was informed it was being collected by the Shipwrecked Mariners Society to be re-sited in London. Clerk contacted Mr Freeman again on the 22nd October and he replied saying he was still waiting to hear from them. She then contacted the Society and was informed they are awaiting planning permission to re-site it. If they are unsuccessful they may come back to TCC for suggestions for an alternative site for it. TCC feel it ought to be temporarily sited in a more sympathetic position and Clerk was asked to request this. Re-agenda for November.
Cllr Hillard reported he has a large, heavy piece of stone, currently located in The Forest of Dean which he wants to relocate to the churchyard. He asked if anyone knew of a vehicle suitable to help unload it into a pre-prepared spot in the churchyard. He was advised of someone who may be able to assist and was going to make enquiries.
Risk Assessment – possible review? Agreed to re-visit in the New Year. 
2598. Date of next meeting: 26th November 2018.
There being no further business the meeting closed at 20.52
