Minutes of a meeting of the above Council held on Monday 24th May 2021 at 7.00pm in Tintern Village Hall.<br /><br />Present:  Chairman Cllr Shewell, Cllrs Hayward, Hoskins, Hillard, Evans, Richards, Cobb, Ashman, County Cllr Webb & the Clerk.  Mr & Mrs Darren Bryce.  Mr Mark Hand, MCC.<br /><br />3079.Police Report:  Attached.<br /><br />3080.Apologies for absence:  None.<br /><br />3081.Declarations of interest:  Cllr Cobb re 3087 (Village Hall).<br /><br />3082.Approval of minutes of previous meeting:  Approved & signed as correct. <br /><br />3083.Financial Report:   BMM A/C &pound;5,642.54p, Community A/C &pound;14,296.87.  Precept of &pound;6,936.00 paid in on 30th April 2021.  Amount spent to date on Revenue &pound;2,893.03, Capital &pound;500.00, total &pound;3,393.03.<br /><br />3084.Accounts for payment:-<br />Came & Co. Council Insurance - &pound;776.72 (Ch. No. 300227)<br />Internal Auditor's Fee - &pound;75.00 (Ch. No. 300228)<br />Clerk's Salary & Expenses - &pound;370.27 (Ch. No. 300229)<br />SOCOTEC Asbestos Ltd - Analytical Survey of Village Hall Loft Space - &pound;900.00 (Ch. No. 300230).<br />Merlin Waste - &pound;43.33 (Ch. No. 300231)  <br />All approved for payment.<br /><br />3085.   Planning Permissions:   None.<br />Livox Quarry - Presentation by Mr & Mrs Darren Bryce on their proposals for the site.  They purchased the site 3 years ago and have been working with MCC for pre application advice and had Level 4 meetings with them over their proposals.  Also working with the Greenways Route to connect Sedbury & Chepstow with Tintern and hope to put a foot bridge over the river.  They are nearly ready to put in a formal application.  Initial development is for 40 2-3 bedroom lodges open to families, with supporting activities. Councillors raised several questions but were generally supportive of their proposals.<br />DM/2020/01829 - Llan-Y-Nant Farm.  Notification from MCC that their Delegation Panel <br />will be meeting on 26th May to discuss this application.<br /><br />3086.   Updates:-     A466 Future Closure - Final works commenced on the 4th April. Unfortunately due to recent weather conditions and some rock falls work will not have finished by the Whit weekend so the road will remain closed.  Mr Mark Hand explained that they have taken away 10-30% more rock due to the rock falls.  A programme of netting on the rock face is progressing but unable to open the road until that is finished.  Aiming to finish by 11th June, but will update TCC following another meeting on Thursday.  <br />Cllr Shewell explained she & Cllr Evans had met Graham Kinsella, MCC last week by the Wye Valley Hotel re issues over damage to cars outside the Hotel and lack of white lines and also speeding infringement especially by cyclists.  Mr Kinsella had agreed to look into this.  Cllr Shewell also raised issues re signage during the A466 diversion and highlighted anomalies which Mr Hand also agreed to address.  County Cllr Webb reported there is a list of at least six issues to be dealt with by MCC after the road is opened.  Cllr Hayward reported that the debris from the flooding is still on the A466.  Cllr Shewell also brought up the issue of the pavement widening by Abbey Mill which has caused numerous problems.  Mr Hand agreed to look at this again with colleagues.  He explained MCC are looking into having discussions and future ideas/improvements and would like a meeting with TCC.  Cllr Shewell  asked if TCC could be given an idea of what MCC have in mind and asked which councillors would be interested in being part of the group.  Cllrs Hillard, Evans, Richards & Ashman volunteered.<br />Tintern Business Forum/Business Resilience Forum - Meeting of Monmouthshire Business Resilience Forum held 21st May.  Discussions took place about the latest grants available of which there is one upcoming for those hospitality businesses not able to open during the pandemic.  Businesses representative throughout the county felt there should be better communication by MCC with the businesses.  Presentation from Visit Monmouthshire Team who will be doing a promotional video for Tintern.  Cllr Richards raised the issue of the temporary closure of Tintern Abbey Church for up to 5 years for repairs.  No further Tintern Forum meetings booked at present.<br />Tintern Ambassador Scheme - Training tomorrow, recruitment gone well, about 13 volunteered so far.  The aim is to recruit 20.  Ambassadors were hoping to start this coming weekend but this is likely to be delayed.  Grant available from MCC to have two proper bases for the ambassadors and a location on the edge of the Abbey car park and also entrance to Wireworks Bridge were potentially agreed. <br />Wye Valley Villages Project - No further feedback since last meeting.  <br />Highway 53.4, Chapel Hill/Churchgrove - County Cllr Webb is in communication with Mr Hand and hope to have a meeting set up for the week after next.  Email from a member of the public querying requests for closure of some routes to off-road vehicles.  County Cllr Webb had offered to meet the person with someone from AONB but they have not responded.  <br />Flood Prevention, Forge Road - Update following meeting with residents & MCC Flood Management Officers.  Respective land owners will be contacted to clear obstructions, but funding would have to be sought from the Welsh Government for the other actions.  Funds for the current year are over-subscribed but MCC will endeavour to get funding for 2022/23.<br /><br />3087.Reports from outside bodies:-<br />Lower Wye Valley Building Preservation Trust - No report.<br />Fryer's Wharf - No report.  <br />Village Hall - Request for confirmation of payment of invoice from Severn Insulation for asbestos removal works to the loft space of &pound;8,185.00 VAT which will be commencing shortly. Also payment of SOCOTEC Asbestos Ltd's invoice for analytical survey of &pound;750 + VAT.  Improvement works to playground include the swing seats.  Hall now ready for opening for use by the public as long as cleaning protocol is in place.  <br />Llandogo School - Interviewing for new staff took place today.  Grateful thanks for TCC's donation passed on.  <br />St Michael's Church - Services are continuing, albeit under Covid restrictions.  Subject to an ongoing risk assessment and volunteer staffing the Church can be open for a couple of hours in the afternoon, once a week for private prayer and general visiting.  The outstanding Quinquennial Inspection was carried out recently by the Diocesan's Architect. This is encouraging with a few minor matters arising.  Recently a review meeting between the Restoration Committee, their Architect and the Contractors.  The snagging list is almost complete but still awaiting approval from Welsh Water to complete the drainage.  TCC will need to complete a deed with the Church, Welsh Water, Aviva Insurance and the Contractors.  The drainage connection works could then be completed in the next 3 months.  <br /><br />3088.Reports from Sub-Committees:- Finance.  Annual accounts been checked by Internal Auditor.   Renewal Notice received from Came & Co for council insurance. Due to the claim made for repairworks at Fryer's Wharf the premium has increased for the coming year and they are not prepared to cover the Council for loss, destruction or damage caused by flood in respect of Fryer's Wharf for the next year. They also state that TCC have broken their long-term agreement by claiming. Clarification sought if this is the case why the premium has increased.  Cllr Hillard to look into alternative insurers.  All Cllrs were in agreement that he do this but if no better quote is received to pay this year's premium.<br /><br />3089.   Proposal by MCC to install some Bee-Friendly Planters in the village:  Roger Hoggins, MCC has notified TCC they have plans to install these planters in the village.  They will provide the plants but have asked if TCC can take on the maintenance of them. County Cllr Webb met Carl Touhig and MCC have agreed to carry out some tidying up works to the area around the White Monk Caf/Abbey roundabout. They suggest installing a planter at this location and one by the Wye Valley Hotel, in addition to 10 elsewhere. Cllrs Shewell & Richards suggested the businesses be asked to take on the maintenance of ones near them.<br /><br />3090.   Correspondence:  Email from Sally Meyrick, MCC Affordable Housing Dept enquiring if there is any land suitable for housing development in the community.  Inform her TCC previously suggested possible sites to MHA. <br />Tintern Abbey Church temporary closure.  The Abbey site is remaining open but the Church will be closed for up to 5 years to carry out essential repairworks <br />Susan Parkinson, MCC Litter Education Officer re dog waste bags and Keep Wales Tidy signs to assist in developing their dog fouling campaign.  They can supply the Council with bags initially as part of this funding and also some signs.  The dog waste bin on The Abbey Roundabout has now been moved slightly.  The general bin from the south promenade is being been moved to the north promenade.<br /><br />3091.Any Other Business:  Police & Fire Service are carrying out an exercise in the village regarding speeding on the 10th June.  Anyone identified will be shown a presentation film on the dangers of speeding.  They had asked if TCC would be prepared to make a contribution towards the cost of hiring the premises for the presentation.  As hall hire had not taken place over the previous year Cllrs agreed to this.  <br />Cllr Shewell reported that when she met Graham Kinsella, MCC he agreed to get the speed monitor sign at the northern end of the village repaired.<br />Cllr Ashman reported that some of the awning had come away from the front of The Bay Cottage and it appears some materials being used are not consistent with the rest.  Clerk to report this to Amy Longford, MCC. <br />County Cllr Webb reported that she had spoken to the owner of the former Abbey Hotel with regard to planning issues. He is having an open discussion meeting with MCC next Friday to discuss exactly the current position with regard to the three cottages at the rear.  He was under the impression he couldn't start on these until the main building is sorted.  Agenda for discussion in June.<br />Cllr Shewell reported that there had been problems with parking at the Royal George/Wild Hare the previous weekend. All spaces were in use and cars were parked on the roadside.  <br />Defibrillators - Email received from concerned resident who found it difficult to gain access to the defibrillators.  Discuss whether the code should be available on the website and/or whether the defibrillator should be left unlocked.  Councillors agreed that a notice be put on them with the access code. <br />Email from Susan Parkinson re the issue of litter bags at the bin between the Filling Station Caf & Playground entrance.  Clerk suggest they speak direct to the Kennedys regarding the problem.  Cllr Richards stated she had spoken with Mrs Kennedy who reported that MCC's operatives did not know they had to collect the waste from the bin on the A466 near the Filling Station Caf and Lower Wireworks Car Park.  Clerk to check with Susan Parkinson that MCC's operatives know where all the bins are.<br /><br />3092.Date of next meeting:  28th June.<br /><br />There being no further business the meeting closed at 20.45.<br />